that police were just bureaucrats with
weapons
police sociologists back in the 60s and
70s started following cops around and
clocking what they do and they
discovered that
maybe seven percent of what a policeman
does on the average day
is has anything to do with crime
and of that you know only a minority it
has anything to do with violent crime so
we have this idea of police they fight
crime and when we think of crime we
assume violent criminals you know
they're engaged in this kind of war um
against somebody who's shooting back
um in fact what they actually do
is they intervene in
administrative violations or regulations
ordinances
all these laws about
where you can eat talk sit sell things
smoke things drink things so forth and
so on
all these regulations are enforced
by
means of the threat of violence so so
police actually bring the danger of
violence into situations
such as say the sale of unlicensed
cigarettes you know where violence would
not possibly get involved had they not
shown up as i always point out in a lot
of
incidents of violence that do occur cops
don't ever get involved um you know two
people in a bar get into a fight cops
are almost certainly not going to get
involved if there's
people having a knife fight you know
cops probably will not get involved
there's domestic violence cops probably
won't get involved up
in fact if somebody's killed they'll get
involved or some but that's because
there's forms to be filled out if
somebody's in the hospital there'll be
paperwork then cops will probably have
to do a report if it's a violent crime
so violence only becomes relevant